SOURCE: https://web.archive.org/web/20050916215933id_/http://del.icio.us/
FINAL: https://web.archive.org/web/20050916215933id_/http://del.icio.us/
HTTP: 200
FETCHED: 2026-07-30 (deep research pass)
BYTES_RAW: 53263
---
del.icio.us skip to content login register about popular del.icio.us most active software web blog design reference programming tools music ajax howto news linux css blogs search art google webdesign javascript development java tutorial politics mac games fun photography internet technology windows opensource free video humor security osx business flash tech cool toread shopping webdev funny php productivity ruby web2.0 firefox rss &raquo; see more tags social bookmarks &raquo; del.icio.us is a social bookmarks manager. It allows you to easily add web pages you like to your personal collection of links, to categorize those sites with keywords, and to share your collection not only among your own browsers and machines, but also with others. &raquo; Once you've registered for the service, you add a simple bookmarklet to your browser. When you find a web page you'd like to add to your list, you simply select the del.icio.us bookmarklet, and you'll be asked for information about the page. You can add descriptive terms to group similar links together and add notes for yourself or for others. &raquo; You can access your list of links from any web browser. Your links are shown to you with those you've added most recently at the top. In addition to viewing by date, you can also view all links with a specific keywords (you define your own keywords as you add the links), or search your links for keywords. &raquo; What makes del.icio.us a social system is its ability to let you see the links that others have collected, as well as showing you who else has bookmarked a specific site. You can also view the links collected by others, and subscribe to the links of people whose lists you find interesting. &raquo; Recent posts: posts SpamPal homepage to email spam by bort911 ... and 25 other people Just posted Wget4web: веб-интерфейс для Wget to wget web by ar2r ... and 2 other people Just posted StealDeals.Net - Never Pay Full Price! to computer.deals by ossiander ... and 178 other people Just posted Responsible Shopper Keep track of who you are giving your money to and what they are likely to be doing with it. to activism business consumer corporation eco economics environment ethics fairtrade food by cityhippy ... and 92 other people Just posted Copyscape - Website Plagiarism Search - Web Site Content Copyright Protection to plagiarism search by djpr ... and 11 other people Just posted The Green Garbage Bins of Gilles Deleuze to bastien deleuze by colab Just posted The Little App Factory to ipod by ossiander ... and 34 other people Just posted Day Software - Communiqué JSR 170 - content repository reference implementation to software jsr reference java by mstanley Just posted [REUSE] Productize your rails application to rubyonrails rails ruby tech programming by kouretasgoat ... and 5 other people Just posted podCast411.com :: View topic - iTunes 4.9 - 1 click subs on your site! to rss MAKE by leafio ... and 11 other people Just posted Max Kiesler - mHub to programming rails resources ruby rubyonrails webdev by spiralstarez ... and 10 other people Just posted MacNN | Apple, iPod, Mac news @ The Macintosh News Network to apple osx by dr_dave ... and 321 other people Just posted MGS 4 pic by chsty Just posted Buzzword Compliant » YMail Beta Screenshots (Oddpost and Gmail too) to email software ajax google yahoo by etherjag ... and 8 other people Just posted beadFX - Tips and Tricks to beading by tsumetai Just posted Moviehole.net - Stiller and Wilson returning for Zoolander 2 to movie funny by jeremyjohnson ... and 1 other person Just posted Ruby Home Page to ruby by SigmaBetaTooth ... and 701 other people Just posted Putting iPod into Disk Mode to ipod apple by gism82 ... and 12 other people Just posted Darna Network to blog comics Darna Philippines superheroines television by MaeMai ... and 1 other person Just posted Overview (JOGL API) to java opengl api programming computer by johan.wannheden Just posted Design for Democracy : Home to politics design by shaun ... and 16 other people Just posted Bem-vindo aos Cinemas Medeia Millenium Site dos cinema medeia - dá para comprar bilhetes online à borla to cinema by sebastiao.barata ... and 1 other person 1 minute ago XBOX Dance Dance Revolution XBOX to ddr by freakdog 1 minute ago Don't Write Off Old Media - Forbes.com Just in case you were going to write off old media, this article suggests you shouldn't. Noted. to magazines by rexblog 1 minute ago Web 2.0 Conference 2005 by cbarberich ... and 147 other people 1 minute ago Whuffie - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia to book toread by wnpxrz ... and 10 other people 1 minute ago OUseful Info: Encouraging Online Engagement with Wikis to ajh wiki socialsoftware wikicourse by psychemedia 1 minute ago Progenic.com - Top 100 underground computer technology websites to hacks security technology resources to-eval by gargamel ... and 53 other people 1 minute ago VC EXPERTS to vc by finnstones ... and 1 other person 1 minute ago - P I X E L - [WEBCOMIC] to webcomic comics by hieronymus ... and 5 other people 1 minute ago Epinions.com to reviews by shannonanna ... and 257 other people 1 minute ago Perl in 20 pages to perl tutorials by neuropet ... and 26 other people 1 minute ago Sen:te - Goban to games osx by baitsell ... and 86 other people 1 minute ago Video Data Bank: Video Art and Video Artists to video art compilations interviews media artists by unm27 ... and 21 other people 1 minute ago palmdoc: Native PDFs on your Palm to treo by pinkowitz 1 minute ago W3Schools Online Web Tutorials to web webdesign tutorial by steinski ... and 1637 other people 1 minute ago Understanding Ruby Symbols to ruby by SigmaBetaTooth ... and 154 other people 1 minute ago Daring Fireball to blog apple osx by dr_dave ... and 617 other people 1 minute ago Design by Fire: Gurus v. Bloggers, Round 1 to web-design by crb ... and 41 other people 1 minute ago CEO Bloggers' Club: Trends & Strategy to vc technology business entrepreneurship by finnstones ... and 1 other person 1 minute ago FEMA's IE-Only Form: Just What Katrina Victims Don't Need to W3C standards by evanj 1 minute ago Welcome to Instructables to creativity education howto diy projects tutorials by arameal ... and 249 other people 1 minute ago Mighty Goods: Shopping Blog to blogs gadgets cool by isam ... and 237 other people 1 minute ago OUseful Info: Encouraging Online Engagement with Social Bookmarks to ajh bookmarking by psychemedia 1 minute ago Demos - The Everyday Democracy Think Tank by maximolly ... and 58 other people 1 minute ago Googlism to google internet search humor web tools information entertainment by mdramige ... and 248 other people 2 minutes ago Play Guitar in One Weekend to infoproducts guitar by jabberwonk 2 minutes ago June Taylor Organic Preserves to food by raguilera ... and 2 other people 2 minutes ago codewalkers php forums : PHP Coding - RE: Can PHP do this? to programming php by snooze35 2 minutes ago Oakland Public Library Home Page to library books oakland by bklieth ... and 2 other people 2 minutes ago macosxhints - Get the most from X! to apple osx by dr_dave ... and 1113 other people 2 minutes ago AtomEnabled.org to publishing api webservices xml syndication atom by mstanley ... and 171 other people 2 minutes ago OUseful Info: Encouraging Online Engagement with Social Software to ajh socialsoftware wiki bookmarking by psychemedia 2 minutes ago Darna Screen Shots to blog comics Philippines superheroines Darna television by MaeMai 2 minutes ago Digital Earth Weblog » Company Story to consultant telstra by mariushendrik 2 minutes ago Aquarionics - Journal - Mod Rewrite as a virtual hosting environment to apache subdomain by jasondigitized 2 minutes ago Nintendo introduces new remote control - Games - MSNBC.com by Madasi 2 minutes ago Web Page Design for Designers to design by gbancroft ... and 207 other people 2 minutes ago RailDock - searchable documentation for ruby on rails to ruby rails rubyonrails documentation reference search webdev tech by kouretasgoat ... and 198 other people 2 minutes ago DM's Esoteric Programming Languages Продолжая тему смешных языков. to funny programming language by ivank ... and 4 other people 2 minutes ago Adium Xtras - Home to apple osx by dr_dave ... and 49 other people 2 minutes ago OUseful Info: Reverse ROUTES to ajh ROUTES OU by psychemedia 2 minutes ago ObjectGraph Dictionary (Google Suggest) to useful interesting google by manugarg ... and 593 other people 2 minutes ago RedHanded » sneaking Ruby through the system to ruby by SigmaBetaTooth ... and 245 other people 2 minutes ago commerical calendar software with server to calendar by jjcook ... and 8 other people 2 minutes ago 4Mobility - WiMAX Again? to wireless by finnstones ... and 1 other person 2 minutes ago Inventures Group to vc by finnstones ... and 1 other person 3 minutes ago OUseful Info: OU Course Info Live Search? to ajh livesearch OU by psychemedia 3 minutes ago Nothing ventured, nothing gained: Penny-at-a-time brands to blogs vc by finnstones ... and 1 other person 3 minutes ago Adium - Download to apple osx by dr_dave ... and 382 other people 3 minutes ago Armor Production Guide -- Anarchy Online Vault to AO_Stuff by fletchathome 3 minutes ago Crochet Pattern Central - Free Bead Crochet Pattern Links to beading by tsumetai 3 minutes ago AC/OS Nicholas left this (see below) as a comment to a posting I'd made. I think it's worth reposting here, for those (probably most of you) who missed it. A passionate, reasonable argument as to why open source matters in the developing world. You can find his to BillionaireBusinessman mattasay blog post opensource Africa development economics innovation by yoda ... and 3 other people 3 minutes ago Anonymizer - Anonymous Web Surfing, Anti Spyware, Anonymous Proxy, & Identity Protection to proxy by arfff ... and 6 other people 3 minutes ago Veronis Suhler Stevenson to vc research by finnstones ... and 1 other person 3 minutes ago Il
