TITLE: digg
HTML_LEN: 27414
digg digg search about digg register login latest front page stories Ever get the feeling the people at Blockbuster are calling you an idiot? submitted by SilentBobSC 2 hours 45 minutes ago ( via http://forum.teamxbox.com/show... ) Unsurprisingly, the managers at Blockbuster really do call you an idiot behind your back, and possibly even in their computer system. For an added bonus, sometimes they'll even print it on your receipt for all to share. 51 comments blog this category: hardware 435 diggs digg it Car Shuts Down if you dont pay the bill submitted by stenspect 6 hours 10 minutes ago ( via http://www.usatoday.com/tech/n... ) If you don't pay your cars monthly or weekly bill then you may fall victim to the auto kill switch. Pay it and recieve the necessary code to keep her running. 81 comments blog this category: technology 506 diggs digg it HOW TO: Survive worst case scenarios! submitted by NovaBandit 5 hours 33 minutes ago ( via http://www.popularmechanics.co... ) Packed full of useful information such as "How To Survive A Volcanic Eruption", "How To Navigate A Minefield", "How To Escape From A Car Hanging Over The Edge Of A Cliff" and of course "How To Cross A Piranha-Infested River". 31 comments blog this category: science 551 diggs digg it Half-Life 2 Goldeneye mod available on Christmas Day! submitted by Svoma15 4 hours 48 minutes ago ( via http://goldeneyesource.com/ind... ) 8 weapons: PP7, KF7, AutoShotgun, ZMG, Golden Gun, Proximity/Remote/Timed mines, and both the throwing and hunting knives. 4 maps: Facility, Facility Backzone, Egyptian, Control. 3 character models: Bond, Oddjob, Ourumov. 3 gameplay modes: Deathmatch, License to Kill, Man with a Golden Gun. 52 comments blog this category: gaming 565 diggs digg it Got a Cold? Stay away from NyQuil/DayQuil submitted by SuperRob 9 hours 24 minutes ago ( via http://superrob.blogspot.com/2... ) Vicks changed the formulation of their popular NyQuil and DayQuil products, removing the active ingredient pseudoephedrine due to its use in making crystal meth. The new active ingredient does nothing for nasal congestion, and the entire product is less effective. Check the labels before buying your usual cold product to avoid "surprises". 128 comments blog this category: science 1284 diggs digg it Apple releases Security Update 2005-009 for Mac OS X Tiger submitted by snowdog 1 day 3 hours ago ( via http://docs.info.apple.com/art... ) Update included: apache_mod_ssl CoreFoundation CoreTypes curl iodbcadm
