SOURCE: https://cybercultural.com/p/internet-2002/
FINAL: https://cybercultural.com/p/internet-2002/
STATUS: [visited] 2026-07-25 project-stack visit
SLUG: cybercultural-internet-2002
ROLE: narrative spine
TITLE: What the Internet Was Like in 2002 | Cybercultural
BYTES: 29761
ERROR: 

KEY FACTS / TEXT:
What the Internet Was Like in 2002 | Cybercultural
Skip to content
Cybercultural
Home
Explore
Pre-web
Dot-com
Web 2.0
2010s
By Year
Seasons
Notes
Book
About
Search
Subscribe
Menu
What the Internet Was Like in 2002
With Flash websites and CSS designs, the broadband-fueled 2002 internet is full of creativity. Meanwhile, online music is the wild west and the blogosphere points the way to a more social web.
By Richard MacManus |
December 2, 2025
| Tags:  Dot-com , Yearly Reviews , 2002
KaZaA , one of many P2P file sharing services in 2002.
In June 2002, Pew Research Center released a report on broadband uptake . It stated that 21% of all Internet users in America — 24 million adults — now had broadband in the home, up from just 6% two years ago. Of course, broadband penetration would continue to trend upward over the coming years. But even in 2002, Pew claimed that the internet had morphed from a "sometimes" tool for communication and finding information to an "always-on information appliance."
This change in the character of the internet around 2002 led to the other trends we'll look at in this post: more interactive websites, more online music choices, more socializing on the web.
A BBC report in January 2002 about broadband.
Web Design: Flash to CSS
One website that illustrates well the shift to a broadband sensibility in 2002 was MTV.com. Unlike some multimedia-heavy websites from that year, it didn't rely too heavily on Flash technology. If anything, it was a traditional HTML portal that made extensive use of tables and image buttons for layout.
The site was rich in streaming media, though — including on-demand music videos, radio streams, and broadband-only content. This was typically delivered via RealPlayer and Windows Media plugins, rather than Flash.
MTV homepage, 8 August 2002 .
However, Flash and Shockwave — two popular multimedia technologies from Macromedia — were used heavily for MTV's tv show microsites and its interactive promos. One example was an interactive microsite for The Osbournes, built using Shockwave:
The Osbournes website in 2002
MTV also had community member profiles, which in hindsight looks like a prototype for MySpace (which would launch the following year). Only instead of blogs, it was message boards; and the emphasis was on collecting lists of bands and MTV shows, rather than collecting friends. But if you squint, you can see social networks taking shape.
An MTV community member, June 2002 . Note that this person is already castigating MTV for not playing enough music!
It wasn't all about multimedia on the web in 2002. Web standards were also becoming increasingly popular with web designers; and in particular the "tableless CSS" design. Wired launched a big CSS-based redesign in October 2002 . Blogger Adrian Holovaty wrote:
"In a tremendous win for Web standards and modern Web technologies such as XHTML, the site now uses an all-CSS layout. The site's announcement says it "may be the first major, heavily trafficked, constantly updated site to adopt [Web standards]." [...] the site's reliance on style sheets opens the door to many innovations -- such as dynamic text resizing, which the site has already implemented."
Lead designer Douglas Bowman noted that all pages now "rely entirely on CSS for every design, format, and presentation detail."
Wired's 2002 CSS redesign; image via Doug Bowman's StopDesign.
Blogosphere Rises
Speaking of beautiful web designs, over 2002 blogging became a thriving ecosystem of colourful personal sites that interconnected to each other via RSS, trackback and blogrolls.
Blogging software by this time was both sophisticated and relatively easy to use. In its version 2.51 , Movable Type had multiple template options, entry categorization, built-in comments, a new feature called "trackback," and more. The original mainstream blog platform, Blogger, was also still going strong . Other blog software options included Radio Userland, LiveJournal and Xanga.
Tom Coates' PlasticBag was one of the more visually impressive blogs of this era.
In an influential article on Microcontent News , John Hiler popularized the notion of a "blogosphere," which he defined as an "emerging media ecosystem."
Hiler gave the credit for coining the word to William Quick , who first used it at the end of 2001. In fact it was Brad Graham who coined blogosphere , albeit jokingly, in September 1999. In any case, Hiler was the one who positioned blogs in the larger media ecosystem:
"The word was meant as a clever pun combining "Blog" with "logos", a Greek word meaning logic and reason. And while bloggers do often use logic in dissecting arguments, I love the word Blogosphere because it happens to capture another truth: the Blogosphere is a biosphere of its own, a Media Ecosystem that lives and breathes just like any other biological system."
John Hiler's blogosphere diagram.
Post-Napster P2P Chaos
Napster was effectively cancelled in 2001 due to lawsuits from the record industry. But by 

BUILD NOTES:
From project stack (SOURCES.md §20 · REBUILD-ARTIFACT-MAP · 2002-RESEARCH archive map).
Anachronism bans: MySpace default · iTunes Music Store · Facebook · Firefox final brand · WordPress default · Blogger-by-Google mid-2002 · Netflix streaming · always-on = most adults.
