SOURCE: https://cybercultural.com/p/ipod-2002/
FINAL: https://cybercultural.com/p/ipod-2002/
STATUS: [visited] 2026-07-25 project-stack visit
SLUG: cybercultural-ipod-2002
ROLE: iPod gen2 / no Store
TITLE: 2002: The Second iPod and Steve Jobs on Music Streaming | Cybercultural
BYTES: 24450
ERROR: 

KEY FACTS / TEXT:
2002: The Second iPod and Steve Jobs on Music Streaming | Cybercultural
Skip to content
Cybercultural
Home
Explore
Pre-web
Dot-com
Web 2.0
2010s
By Year
Seasons
Notes
Book
About
Search
Subscribe
Menu
2002: The Second iPod and Steve Jobs on Music Streaming
With its revolutionary 'touch wheel' and double the storage, Apple's 2nd gen iPod is the state of the art in digital music in 2002. But the future is online streaming, which Steve Jobs struggles to accept.
By Richard MacManus |
November 18, 2025
| Tags:  Dot-com , 2002 , Season 4
Apple iPod generation 2 webpage, Aug-Sep 2002; via Wayback Machine .
After the iPod’s launch in October 2001 — “1,000 songs in your pocket" — Apple sold 125,000 units of the new device by the end of the year. In March 2002, Apple introduced a version with 10GB of storage (approximately 2,000 songs). But it wasn’t until August 2002, with the second generation iPod , that the real growth began. That was when Windows support was added, via software called MusicMatch Jukebox . iPod 2 also doubled the maximum storage capacity, from 10GB to 20GB — enough to hold 35-40 albums, which felt like a proper record collection.
iPod generation 2; photo by Paul Mayne , taken October 2002.
Perhaps the most significant new feature of iPod 2, though, was its touch-sensitive scroll wheel. The first generation had featured a mechanical scroll wheel, meaning it physically moved. In the second generation, it was re-named the “touch wheel” because you simply traced your finger around the wheel’s surface to scroll. This was a harbinger of the iPhone, which would launch five years later.
Towards An Online Marketplace
While Apple was gradually enhancing the hardware and expanding the user base of online music through software, Steve Jobs was working behind the scenes with the music industry. His goal: an online marketplace for music. A legal Napster , if you will. He was greatly assisted in achieving this goal by the ineptitude of the record companies when it came to the internet. In his later biography of Jobs, Walter Isaacson described the sorry situation of the majors:
“Sony joined with Universal to create a subscription service called Pressplay. Meanwhile, AOL Time Warner, Bertelsmann, and EMI teamed up with RealNetworks to create MusicNet. Neither would license its songs to the rival service, so each offered only about half the music available. Both were subscription services that allowed customers to stream songs but not keep them, so you lost access to them if your subscription lapsed. They had complicated restrictions and clunky interfaces.”
iPod generation 2 tech specs; via Wayback Machine .
Meanwhile, Napster had effectively been cancelled due to lawsuits from the record industry. But other, more decentralised, P2P services had arisen to take its place: Kazaa, Gnutella (which powered clients like LimeWire and Morpheus), eDonkey2000 (with its eMule client), BitTorrent, and others. It was these services that people flocked to for MP3s, not the sanctioned apps of record companies.
As Isaacson explained in his Jobs biography, Apple set out to create a “legal alternative” to the illicit music file sharing scene. But to do that, he’d have to convince the five major record labels —  Universal, Warner, EMI, BMG, and Sony — to take part in its upcoming iTunes Store. This took him over a year to accomplish. Ironically, Jobs used the fact that iTunes was not available on Windows as a selling point to the music industry executives. While the second generation iPod worked on Windows, that was via MusicMatch Jukebox, an alternative media player to iTunes. So effectively, the iTunes Store would only initially be available on the Mac — which had just five percent of the PC market at the time.
MusicMatch software, August 2002 .
“Our smaller market share turned out to be an asset!" Jobs later told the author Steven Levy . “We only convinced them to let us do it on the Mac at first. We said, 'Well, if, you know, if the virus gets out, it's only going to pollute five percent of the garden here.' And that's  probably what, in the end, enabled us to get them to come along with us.”
Another thing the record companies insisted on was a security system to prevent their copyrighted songs from being easily copied. In both Isaacson and Levy’s telling, Jobs wanted this to be as user friendly as possible. What Apple eventually came up with was a digital rights management (DRM) system called FairPlay, which allowed users to keep their downloaded songs forever (just like with CDs) but that limited playback to authorised computers and devices. Among other things, this provided lock-in to the iPod, because songs bought on iTunes could not be played on competing MP3 player devices. It also inhibited illegal sharing on P2P services, since FairPlay effectively tied each downloaded song to a user ID.
Apple homepage, October 2002 .
Steve Jobs and Streaming
It became clear over 2002 that Steve Jobs didn’t believe music subscription serv

BUILD NOTES:
From project stack (SOURCES.md §20 · REBUILD-ARTIFACT-MAP · 2002-RESEARCH archive map).
Anachronism bans: MySpace default · iTunes Music Store · Facebook · Firefox final brand · WordPress default · Blogger-by-Google mid-2002 · Netflix streaming · always-on = most adults.
