SOURCE: https://www.theregister.com/2002/03/15/old_morpheus_still_works/
FINAL: https://www.theregister.com/software/2002/03/15/old-morpheus-still-works-for-unhacked-users/756991
STATUS: [visited] 2026-07-25 project-stack visit
SLUG: register-morpheus
ROLE: KaZaA/Morpheus chaos
TITLE: Old Morpheus still works for unhacked users
BYTES: 158164
ERROR: 

KEY FACTS / TEXT:
Old Morpheus still works for unhacked users
Jump to main content
Search
TOPICS
Security
All Security
Cyber-crime
Patches
Research
CSO
Off-Prem
All Off-Prem
Edge and IoT
Channel
PaaS and IaaS
SaaS
On-Prem
All On-Prem
Systems
Storage
Networks
HPC
Personal Tech
Cx0
Public Sector
Software
All Software
AI and ML
Applications
Databases
DevOps
OS Platforms
Virtualization
Offbeat
All Offbeat
Columnists
Science
BOFH
Legal
Site News
About Us
Special Features
All Special Features
HPE: AI Explainers
RSA Conference
Agentic AI
The Future of the Datacenter
AWS:Reinvent
Nvidia GTC
Supercomputing Month
Computex 2026
AI Infrastructure Month 2026
Vendor Voice
All Vendor Voice
Modernizing Financial Services with FIS and AWS
Barco
Infinidat
Everpure
Rubrik
Make it real with Capgemini and AWS
Money Movement Hub
ZTE
Nutanix: Scale Kubernetes. Not Chaos.
AWS New Horizon
Resources
Intelligence
Webinars & Events
Newsletters
Search
Sign in
AI
Security
Microsoft
AWS
Developer
Open Source
Columnists
BOFH
Who, Me?
On Call
REG AD
Software
Old Morpheus still works for unhacked users
P2P networks hack given a fresh twist
John Leyden
John
Leyden
Published
fri 15 Mar 2002 // 13:41 UTC
UPDATED Older versions of the Morpheus file sharing utility still work, Register readers have discovered to their surprise.
Earlier this month Music City Morpheus ditched support for the P2P stack supplied by developer FastTrack and embraced the open source Gnutella protocol, with the launch of Morpheus Preview Edition.
The move was accompanied by accusations from Morpheus that its servers had been subject to a denial of service attack, and that messages which changed its users' registry setting had made the service unavailable.
REG AD
Music City pointed the finger of blame towards KaZaA.com (recently acquired by Sharman Network Services), which like MusicCity's Morpheus and Grokster has licensed the FastTrack P2P stack. MusicCity described FastTrack-KaZaA software as a security risk (or a vector for spyware).
REG AD
Not so, says FastTrack-KaZaA.
KaZaA founder Niklas Zennstrom told CNet that StreamCast Networks, the firm behind Music City Morpheus, had failed to pay its bills, so the license for its P2P stack was terminated.
Sharman Network Services and KaZaA deny any involvement in the hacking attacks, and Sharman has issued a statement saying KaZaA.com was also subjected to malicious DoS attacks.
On February 28, the KaZaA.com Web site was "bombarded by hundreds of thousands of http requests", which prevented users from accessing the site or downloading KaZaA Media Desktop 1.5 for five hours, it said.
Whoever did it is hard to say, but we've recently received evidence that someone with in-depth knowledge of KaZaA has been playing silly buggers.
Shenanigans
Register reader Haavard Pettersen's recent experiences suggest someone had indeed tampered with people's computers to prevent them from using Morpheus.
When Pettersen tried to use an older version of Morpheus (on a Windows 98 partition), that hasn't been used since before Morpheus went down, he discovered to his surprise that it still worked.
REG AD
In XP, he couldn't get either old Morpheus or Preview Edition to work, incidentally.
Russ Spooner, a security consultants at Interrorem and former Morpheus user, confirms Pettersen's experience.
"Clearly the FastTrack client part of the software (used in KaZaA, Grokster and Morpheus) has a backdoor in it that allows the knowledgeable few to fire special packets at clients logged into the FastTrack network which will enable them to modify registry settings," Spooner told us.
"It would appear that for a period of time they had effectively a login script sitting on the authentication servers that basically said 'if (client==morpheus ){ modify registry}'," he added.
The offending login script has now been removed, he notes, so now the original clients work fine, "just so long as they were not exposed to the evil pathogen".
Sharman Network Services (which contrary to what we earlier reported only licenses the FastTrack stack) referred our queries on this to KaZaA founder Niklas Zennstrom. We'll fill you on what he says when he gets back to us.
Both Morpheus and KaZaA are embroiled in copyright violation lawsuits brought against them by the music industry. Yesterday StreamCast Networks announced plans to use digital rights management technology called CintoA to protect the copyright of independent artists, while allowing its users to continue sharing free files.
Whether this will appease its critics, such as the Recording Industry Ass. of America and the Motion Picture Ass. of America, seems doubtful. ®
REG AD
Related stories
Morpheus fesses up to user lockout security breach
Morpheus goes to sleep - users locked out
Morpheus application is 'safe'
KaZaA.com 'evaluates' Dutch court ban
Ala-KaZaA-m!
KaZaA ordered to cease infringing copyright
Napster to ask court to reaffirm Appeal Court ruling
Get your filthy hands off my CDs
RIAA targets post-Napster MP3 sharers
Popula

BUILD NOTES:
From project stack (SOURCES.md §20 · REBUILD-ARTIFACT-MAP · 2002-RESEARCH archive map).
Anachronism bans: MySpace default · iTunes Music Store · Facebook · Firefox final brand · WordPress default · Blogger-by-Google mid-2002 · Netflix streaming · always-on = most adults.
