SOURCE: https://www.versionmuseum.com/history-of/amazon-website
FINAL: https://www.versionmuseum.com/history-of/amazon-website
STATUS: [visited] 2026-07-25 project-stack visit
SLUG: versionmuseum-amazon
ROLE: smile chronology
TITLE: 31 Years of Amazon.com Website Design History - 34 Images - Version Museum
BYTES: 56040
ERROR: 

KEY FACTS / TEXT:
31 Years of Amazon.com Website Design History - 34 Images - Version Museum
Home
Categories
Websites
Operating Systems
Applications
Games
Discontinued
Blog
Social
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
About
About Version Museum
Contact Us
Terms
Privacy Policy
A visual history of your favorite technology
Amazon.com Design History
Explore more history
Website Gallery
View all websites
Operating Systems
View all operating systems
Applications
Discontinued Product Gallery
Games Gallery
Check out our YouTube video showing the
history of the Amazon.com website !
It has all the images and captions from this page, and is easy on the eyes.
Early Stage Amazon (1994-1995)
In 1994, Jeff Bezos witnessed the exponential growth of the World Wide Web
and saw an opportunity to realize online commerce. Initially named Cadabra ,
Bezos changed the name when his attorney convinced him that it sounded too much
like Cadaver . Bezos also considered
the name Relentless for a while before opting for Amazon, which reflected
the ideas of grandiosity and abundance. The company was founded on July 5th, 1994.
Jeff Bezos (1997) Source: CNBC Video
Original Amazon Website (1995)
Amazon.com was launched in July 1995. The logo was an abstract
letter 'A' with a winding river flowing through it and the words Amazon.com, Earth’s
biggest bookstore at the bottom. The color scheme of the site was typical
for 1995 -- lots of gray and not terribly vibrant.
The company offered more than 1 million book titles, vastly
outpacing any competition at the time. It featured a simple search engine
to help find relevant books. Amazon also offered a
free subscription to its personal notification service called "Eyes and Editors,"
enabling clients to proclaim their favorite authors and books. Whenever a
new book of interest was added to the catalog, Amazon would automatically send
the customer an email announcing the addition.
Additionally, Amazon allowed clients to comment on books and exchange ideas with
people around the world using review pages.
The original Amazon website (August 1995) Source: Restored by Taran Van Hemert
TV Interview Footage (1997)
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos conducted many interviews in the early years,
but this one in 1997 with KIRO 7 Seattle
is notable because it had footage of the website at the time. The quality
is poor, but still valuable to see Amazon in it's infancy. The computer in the closeup
shots of the website appears to be an
Apple Powerbook 1400 ,
but the PC brand on Bezos' desk is unclear.
The first image below makes light of Amazon's massive collection of more than one million
books. Amazon's Book of the Day link boasts "a different title every day
for the next 3,000 years."
Amazon.com Homepage on TV broadcast (1997) Source: KIRO 7 News
Amazon.com Search by Title, Author, or Subject (1997) Source: KIRO 7 News
Jeff Bezos with Amazon.com (1997) Source: KIRO 7 News
Logo Experimentation (1997)
The initial Amazon logo underwent several iterations, with changes in color
scheme and fonts. With each iteration, the logo slowly came into shape,
with the color palette becoming increasingly similar to the modern logo.
Amazon experiments with logo iterations (1997) Source: fineprintart.com
Early Amazon Homepage (1997)
The company went public on May 15th, 1997 and raised $54 million in the process.
Amazon's website underwent major changes, reflected in the design and
more user-friendly interface. A left sidebar was introduced to enhance navigation, making the website more usable.
Book covers and reviews were introduced to the experience to allow users to visualize the bookstore.
Amazon homepage image, restored by Version Museum (1997) Source: ebaumsworld.com
Additional Logo Changes (1998)
In 1998, the Amazon logo went through additional iterations. A lowercase serif font
served as the main logo for a short time, with the tag line "Earth's Biggest Bookstore" underneath.
But later that year, the company employed a sans serif all-caps logo with a bright yellow letter 'O' in the middle.
This was also taken down in a few months; the logo soon morphed
into the more familiar lowercase sans-serif logo with a slightly curved yellow line
underneath. The motto "Books, Music and More" floated above. With Amazon's ambitious
expansion plans, the slogan was taken out after a couple of months.
Early Amazon logos (1998) Source: fineprintart.com
Homepage with "Earth's Biggest Bookstore" slogan (1998) Source: blog.cake.hr
Introduction of Tabs & International Expansion (1998)
As Amazon's ambitions grew beyond selling books, tabs were introduced to the website.
The site itself went through numerous alterations, with the search bar making
its first prominent appearance to the top left of the homepage in the latter half
of the year.
Furthermore, international expansion began, with acquisitions of online stores in the United Kingdom and Germany.
Tabs introduced (1998) Source: nist.gov
Oprah's Book Club (1998) Source: nist.gov
Amazon.de homepage (1998) Source: presseportal.de


BUILD NOTES:
From project stack (SOURCES.md §20 · REBUILD-ARTIFACT-MAP · 2002-RESEARCH archive map).
Anachronism bans: MySpace default · iTunes Music Store · Facebook · Firefox final brand · WordPress default · Blogger-by-Google mid-2002 · Netflix streaming · always-on = most adults.
